what do you get from skills. they unlock recipies, entiies, and items,

recipies - level requirement attribute
entities like ore and wood - level requirement
    - fishing locations will have a level requirement, not the fish

items - equiping items will have a requirement. high attack unlocks new stuff. 
defense unlocks armor. 
eqipable items will have level requirement. 

make a timer widget that subscribes to the buff timer so the etirety of player data controller ins't refreshing at 2hz. 

eitehr make a new buff icon or add a conditional to the item stack tile for the buff instead of counter


comabt stances
    defence - boost button raises defence
    strong - boost raises attack   
    fast - boost speeds actions

design fights around stances. need to switch to defence to block big hit. 

need to look up how runescape does drop tables

zones have a diffucults like gathering entities. explorations level makes finding stuff more effective. a high exploration level makes you find more entities per action

slayer as a skill. unlockes mechanics like auto eat. 

combat triangle. 
melee att > range def. swords cut through leather
melee att > magic def. swords cut through cloth
melee att < melee def. armor blocks swords

range att > magic def. arrows peirce cloth
range att < melee def  armor block arrows
range att = range def. leather slows arrows.

magic att > melee def  armor doesn't stop magic
magic att < range def  leather absorbs magic
magic att < magic def. magic armor absorbs magic




mana as a resource. 

black magic skill for damage
white magic skill for healing / buffs

detail screen on entities for drop table and combat stats


campfires. 
you build a campfire in a firepit using the exisitng crafting screen. when you build the fire, the entity icon/id changes for the firepit into the type of fire you made, with the duration. 
the new crafting screen has a button select adding logs. a cooking recipe picker. and a button to put out the fire. 

when the fire timer duration runs out, the entity goes back to a firepit. 

assume total stat wieght of 12. 
type            hp/ att def
balance         4   3   3
glass cannon    1   8   1
tank            4   2   4
rock crab       8   1   1
tank+           4   5   1
dps             3   4   3
                1   1   8



I want all items to have an item quality. Common - legendary. They dont even need to be stat modifiers. They just need to show the quality on the border. only equipment items have stats, and equipment items use rarity/quality to change stats. 
what else might need that. 
Food - food is meant to be stackable. you are not trying to a get a single good item when cooking. rarity makes sense to identify good food. would ever want a stat modifer on food from the quality. say cooking beef. the base quality is common, and it heals 5. would you want to craft or buy a rare version of that that heals more. maybe. I don't think that woulld make sense right now. but I can't count out a consumable wanting better quality. but with food, you just want a bunch of the same item so they stack and you can eat them all. a bunch of different kinds of food doesn't makes senes. 
buff items like potions. they also want a stack. if you have a common minor str and rare minor str, how does that work becuase they woudl have different stats. they would be different items. 
crafting material items don't have stats outside of sell value so quality wouldn't affect them. what do you do with a legendary cow hide, you still sell it. 

conculsion, item that are equipment need to have item quality as a modifer. and the same item can be different quality so it needs to be tied to the instance. 

everything else should have a quality, it is just tied to the definition. so you can look up the quality by id in the catalog. 

the problem is rending both in the same list in the inventory. they both render into item stack tiles. but they are different types, so they live in different lists. 

refactoring the whole app to use item instances instead of id's just to put the two types in the same rendered grid is overkill. I just need to do something clever with the inventory data and widget so they are flat in the same list. 


I don't want max hit to go down until after the defenders defence is greater than the players attack ()


----------------

dungeons..

dungeons are themed around monster types.
spider den, wolf, den, crypt (zombies, skeletons)

monsters in the zone drop keys to the dungeon.

you spend keys to do the dungeon. 
    spend keys to enter? or spend keys to loop a floor? 
    two paths there. 
        -grind monsters to get lots of keys. and spend a key each run. if there is a 1% drop at the boss you need 100 keys. 
        -keys are rare drops and you grind for 1 of them. 1 key lets you enter the dungeon but you spend the key. or keys are permanent. you only have to grind it once. 
    dungeon progress. you get an uncommon key, which gives you access to the dungeon with uncommon monsters, and a rare boss. defeating the rare boss gives rare loot an unlocks uncommon monsters in the zone. uncommon mosters drop the upgraded key which unlocks an upgraded dungeon.
        example:
            wolf den dungeon.
            uncommon forest wolf (lvl 21) has a 1% drop for an uncommon key. 
            the uncommon key unlocks the uncommon wolf den dungeon. the floors have 
            common mobs(21) and uncommon bosses(34) that drop uncommon items. 
            you grind the floor for the upgrades, or progress to the next difficuty. 
            defeating the final boss unlocks the uncommon mob varient in the zone. 
            you grind that mob for the rare key so you can grind the rare dungeon for rare loot 
            and unlock the epic key.

            entry mob level 21
            key         boss lvl
            uncommon    34
            rare        55
            epic        89
            legendary   144

            at some point the dungeon or mobs will be to difficult to grind, so you move on to the next zone
            which is more level appropriate. 

            in this case epic is too hard to effectivly grind, so you move to darkwood forest and start at the spider den dungeon. when you are stronger you comback to wolf den to finish it out and get teh legendary gear upgrades.

            I think this will feel similar to the defender grind in runescape, which I have always liked. grind the easy, thing to unlock the harder thing. 

    I like the idea of dungeon progression. it gives longevity to the content. other methods of unlocking higher dungoens.. 


-------------

weapon damage scaling needs work. or at least evaualted. 
2h is good against high defence enemies. daggers are best against everything else. 


----
idea. slayer skill is how to unlock rares.


----

changes to stregth

stregnth should give a passive idle bonus and a boost bonus
right now stregnth is mulitplicative bonus, where addative might make more sense. 

so for attack x stregnth should give +n idle attack and +k boosted attack. how to determine that? 
two separate formulas?

idle att += str^.75
boost = att += str^1 +1

what about defence?
same formula for now. 


------

cooking.  
making building a fire for a specific duration sucks.
need to change cooking so you just automatically add logs as you cook. 

I have multiple types of fires. how do I want to handle that. 
options. 
-single fire pit like I have now. 
-multiple fire pits. either one for each or one for cooking and one for buffs

single firepit. selecting a cook fire brings up the cooking menu. and logs are automatically added. 